hi it's Brad from backcountry skiing
Canada calm and today were here at
powder Creek backcountry lodge in the
Purcell mountains near Nelson BC to talk
to you about the tyrolia ambition 1280
binding this is a relatively new binding
from tyrolia and it accommodates Alpine
touring boots as well as Alpine boots
and just a few quick facts about the
ambition it has a din of five to twelve
hence the twelve and the name it has a
stand height from the ski to the top of
the deck here on the where the boot goes
of 38 mils weighs in at about 1930 grams
so about four pounds eight ounces which
is pretty respectable for a frame
binding like this it's got a warranty of
two years and it's a one size fits all
binding so that's kind of a unique
feature of this so this will fit a 2 60
ml boot all the way up to a 350 ml boot
so if you've got different sized boots
or different people using the ski you
don't have to buy different bindings it
adjusts quite a bit the brakes come in
an 85 millimeter 105 and a 125 and there
are four rides or positions with this
binding that we'll look at in a minute
there is a zero there's also five
degrees 10 degrees and 15 degrees so for
riser Heights quite good for touring
you've got a set up for all sort of an
inclination of a skin track and it's
also got a free flex system and what
that means is the two design in the
center here it's actually got some flex
in the back here so as you flex the ski
the binding will float essentially on
the ski and eliminate that dead spot
when you're skiing so why don't we go
ahead and take a closer look at the
riser Heights so here we are in ski mode
to switch over to Tour mode simply use
your ski pole to release your heel you
now in Tour mode to get into the five
degree riser you push down from there
you can get up to ten degrees on going
the opposite direction now we're at 10
degrees you line it up to the full 15
you can pull it forward for the high
heels and to go back down we simply go
in reverse down to the bottom five
degrees or the lock out
recently put our heel back down and
lockout our heel and we're ready for ski
mode again so there you have it the
tyrolia ambition 1280 binding if you're
in the market for an 80 binding and
you're looking for a frame binding such
as this there are several brands on the
market these days but the tire early
ambition 12 is a is a great binding for
Alpine touring and if you want to see
this review or many other reviews and
trip reports go to backcountry skiing
Canada calm thanks very much